Doc 6320 cluster sso follow up (#17370)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/v23.1/sso-db-console.md

1. The user is redirected to the CockroachDB cluster.
1. CockroachDB creates a web session for the SQL user in a new browser tab.
1. In the original browser tab, the user is redirected to the [DB Console Cluster Overview]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/ui-cluster-overview-page.md %}).

## Provision an OAuth client using Google Cloud Platform (GCP)

These steps demonstrate how to create an OIDC auth client in Google Cloud Platform to use for SSO authentication to the DB Console.

1. Open the [Credentials page](https://console.developers.google.com/apis/credentials) for your account at Google APIs.

1. Click **+ CREATE CREDENTIALS** and select **OAuth client ID**. Specify a **web application** from the pulldown menu.

1. Note the *client ID* and *client secret* of the OAuth 2.0 client—you will need to configure your cluster to use these values.

1. Add your cluster's callback URL to the list of **Authorized redirect URIs**. On a local cluster, this will be `https://{ your cluster's domain }:8080/oidc/v1/callback`. Subsequently, when configuring your cluster, you will need to ensure that the cluster setting `server.oidc_authentication.redirect_url` has the same value.

> 	- For a {{ site.data.products.core }} cluster, The domain is `localhost`. 

Reviewer: I think for these sub bullet to render properly you have to take out the line space

Reviewer: I _think_

> 1. Add your cluster's callback URL to the list of **Authorized redirect URIs**. On a local cluster, this will be `https://{ your cluster's domain }:8080/oidc/v1/callback`. Subsequently, when configuring your cluster, you will need to ensure that the cluster setting `server.oidc_authentication.redirect_url` has the same value.
> 
> 	- For a {{ site.data.products.core }} cluster, The domain is `localhost`. 
> 	- For a {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster, find the domain by opening the DB Console from your cluster's **Tools** tab in DB Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add your cluster's callback URL to the list of **Authorized redirect URIs**. On a local cluster, this will be `https://{ your cluster's domain }:8080/oidc/v1/callback`. Subsequently, when configuring your cluster, you will need to ensure that the cluster setting `server.oidc_authentication.redirect_url` has the same value.
	- For a {{ site.data.products.core }} cluster, The domain is `localhost`. 
	- For a {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster, find the domain by opening the DB Console from your cluster's **Tools** tab in DB Console.
```

## Configure your cluster to use an OIDC client and provider

**Prerequisites**:

You must have the ability to update your cluster settings, which you can achieve in several ways. Refer to the Required Privileges section on the [`SET CLUSTER SETTING`](set-cluster-setting.html#required-privileges) page.

### Cluster Settings

> You must configure the [cluster settings]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cluster-settings.md %} in the following table to enable SSO authentication to the DB Console. Refer to the [Update your cluster settings](#update-your-cluster-settings) section to configure your cluster settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must configure the [cluster settings]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cluster-settings.md %}) in the following table to enable SSO authentication to the DB Console. Refer to the [Update your cluster settings](#update-your-cluster-settings) section to configure your cluster settings.
```

| Cluster Setting | Description 
|-----------------|------
| `server.oidc_authentication.enabled` | A Boolean that enables or disables SSO.
| `server.oidc_authentication.client_id` | Your auth client's ID.<br>**Example:** `32789079457-g3hdfw8cbw85obi5cb525hsceaqf69unn.apps.googleusercontent.com`.
| `server.oidc_authentication.client_secret` | Your auth client's secret.

> | `server.oidc_authentication.redirect_url` | Specifies the callback URL that redirects the user to CockroachDB after a successful authentication. This can be the address of a node in the cluster or the address of a load balancer that routes traffic to the nodes. You must append the path with `/oidc/v1/callback`. E.g., `https://{ your cluster's domain } :8080/oidc/v1/callback`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `server.oidc_authentication.redirect_url` | Specifies the callback URL that redirects the user to CockroachDB after a successful authentication. This can be the address of a node in the cluster or the address of a load balancer that routes traffic to the nodes. You must append the path with `/oidc/v1/callback`.<br>**Example:** `https://{ your cluster's domain } :8080/oidc/v1/callback`.
```

> | `server.oidc_authentication.provider_url` | Specifies the OAuth issuer identifier. Ensure that the URL does not have a terminating `/`. For more information, refer to the [OIDC specification](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html#ProviderConfig). Note that CockroachDB appends the required `/.well-known/openid-configuration` by default. You do not need to include it. E.g., `https://accounts.google.com`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `server.oidc_authentication.provider_url` | Specifies the OAuth issuer identifier. Ensure that the URL does not have a terminating `/`. For more information, refer to the [OIDC specification](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html#ProviderConfig). Note that CockroachDB appends the required `/.well-known/openid-configuration` by default. You do not need to include it.<br>**Example:** `https://accounts.google.com`.
```

> | `server.oidc_authentication.scopes` | A space-delimited list of the [OAuth scopes](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#ScopeClaims) being requested for an Access Token. The `openid` and `email` scopes must be included. E.g., `openid profile email`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `server.oidc_authentication.scopes` | A space-delimited list of the [OAuth scopes](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#ScopeClaims) being requested for an Access Token. The `openid` and `email` scopes must be included.<br>**Example:** `openid profile email`.
```

Single sign-on (SSO) for DB Console allows a CockroachDB user to access the [DB Console]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/ui-overview.md %}) in a secure cluster via an OpenID Connect (OIDC) client and an external identity provider. When SSO is configured and enabled, the [DB Console login page]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/ui-overview.md %}#db-console-access) will display an OAuth login button in addition to the password access option.

This page describes how to set up Single Sign-on to the DB Console, which includes the following steps:

- The login flow for users, once a cluster is SSO-enabled.
- Configuring a CockroachDB Cluster for OIDC SSO authentication to the DB Console.
- Provisioning an OIDC client for CockroachDB Cluster SSO authentication, using GCP.

If you would also like to enable SSO authentication for SQL clients, you must complete additional configuration on the [Cluster Single Sign-on (SSO) using a JSON web token (JWT)]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/sso-sql.md %}) page.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
SSO for DB Console is available to CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} customers.

> On CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.core }} clusters, SSO for DB Console requires an [Enterprise license]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/enterprise-licensing.md %}).

Author: i'm removing this redundant note

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

This SSO implementation uses the [authorization code grant type](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749#section-4.1) to authenticate a user.

> **Prerequisites**:

Author: I don't usually put it under a header because often several sections/subsections have their own prereqs, and it gets hairy in the nav IMO

- **IdP:** You must have access to an OAuth 2.0 identity provider and client. The process of provisioning one with Google Cloud Platform is described on this page in the [Provision an OAuth client using Google Cloud Platform (GCP)](#provision-an-oauth-client-using-google-cloud-platform-gcp) section.

- **CockroachDB cluster**: you must have access to one of the following:
	- A {{ site.data.products.core }} cluster enabled with a valid [CockroachDB Enterprise license]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/enterprise-licensing.md %}).
	- A [CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/create-your-cluster).

## Log in to a cluster's DB Console with SSO

> From the user's perspective, once the cluster is properly configured to an identity provider, the sign-in flow is as follows:

Author: thank you!

1. A user opens the cluster's DB Console, and clicks on the **Log in with your OIDC provider** button which renders in the page.
1. The user is redirected to an external identity provider.
1. The user successfully authenticates with the provider, completing the OAuth flow.
1. The user is redirected to the CockroachDB cluster.
1. CockroachDB creates a web session for the SQL user in a new browser tab.
1. In the original browser tab, the user is redirected to the [DB Console Cluster Overview]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/ui-cluster-overview-page.md %}).

## Provision an OAuth client using Google Cloud Platform (GCP)

These steps demonstrate how to create an OIDC auth client in Google Cloud Platform to use for SSO authentication to the DB Console.

1. Open the [Credentials page](https://console.developers.google.com/apis/credentials) for your account at Google APIs.

1. Click **+ CREATE CREDENTIALS** and select **OAuth client ID**. Specify a **web application** from the pulldown menu.

1. Note the *client ID* and *client secret* of the OAuth 2.0 client — you will need these values to configure you cluster to use them.

> 1. Add your cluster's callback URL to the list of **Authorized redirect URIs**. On a local cluster, this will be `https://{ your cluster's domain }:8080/oidc/v1/callback`. You must later set `server.oidc_authentication.redirect_url` to the same value.

Author: Hmm, I was just hoping this note here would jog your memory later, maybe this clarifies that you don't need to do anything else now.
```suggestion
1. Add your cluster's callback URL to the list of **Authorized redirect URIs**. On a local cluster, this will be `https://{ your cluster's domain }:8080/oidc/v1/callback`. Subsequently, when configuring your cluster, you will need to ensure that the cluster setting `server.oidc_authentication.redirect_url` has the same value.
```

> 	{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

Author: ```suggestion
```

	- For a {{ site.data.products.core }} cluster, The domain is `localhost`. 
	- For a {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster, find the domain by opening the DB Console from your cluster's **Tools** tab in DB Console.

> 	{{site.data.alerts.end}}

Author: ```suggestion
```

key: sso.html
---

> CockroachDB clusters allow users to authenticate with Single sign-on (SSO), both to the [DB Console]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/ui-overview.md %}), and for SQL client access, using OpenID connect (OIDC).

Reviewer 2: DB Console SSO uses OIDC, the SQL client access just uses JWTs

Author: Ok, I think I've got this correctly split out now, please confirm.

Reviewer 2: I'm seeing "Provioning an OIDC client for CockroachDB Cluster SSO authentication, using GCP." 

Is this a typo and is supposed to read DB Console SSO?

also nit: spelling for "provisioning"

**Prerequisites**:

- **IdP:** You must have access to an OAuth 2.0 identity provider and client. The process of provisioning one with Google Cloud Platform is described here: [Provisioning an OAuth client using Google Cloud Platform (GCP)](#provision-an-oauth-client-using-google-cloud-platform-gcp)

- **CockroachDB Cluster**: you must have access to one of the following:
	1. A {{ site.data.products.core }} cluster enabled with a valid [CockroachDB Enterprise license]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/enterprise-licensing.md %}).
	1. A [CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}cluster](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/create-your-cluster).

## Log in to a cluster's DB Console with SSO

From the user's perspective, once the cluster is properly configured to an identity provider, the sign-in flow is as follows:

1. A user opens the cluster's DB Console, and clicks on the OAuth login button which renders.
1. The user is redirected to an external identity provider.
1. The user successfully authenticates with the provider, completing the OAuth flow.
1. The user is redirected to the CockroachDB cluster.

> 1. The authorization code in the callback query is exchanged for an [ID Token](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#IDToken).

Reviewer 2: Nit without the callback reference in the line above it may not be immediately clear what callback query it is referring to. It might also be worth calling it "in the callback query parameter"

Author: revised this a little. i think all that about the callback query is TMI since it's invisible to the user just trying to log in in the browser.

Reviewer 2: 👍

## Provision an OAuth client using Google Cloud Platform (GCP)

These steps demonstrate how to create an OIDC auth client to use for SSO authentication to the DB Console, using Google Cloud Platform.

1. Open the [Credentials page](https://console.developers.google.com/apis/credentials) for your account at Google APIs.

1. Click **+ CREATE CREDENTIALS** and select **OAuth client ID**. Specify a **web application** from the pulldown menu.

1. Note the *client ID* and *client secret* of the OAuth 2.0 client, as you will need these values to configure you cluster to use them.

1. Add your cluster's callback URL to the list of **Authorized redirect URIs**. On a local cluster, this will be `https://localhost:8080/oidc/v1/callback`. For a {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster, replace 'localhost' with your cluster's domain. This can be found by opening the DB Console from the will be the URL of the You will later set `server.oidc_authentication.redirect_url` to the same value.

## Configure your cluster to use an OIDC client and provider

**Prerequisites**:

> You must have the ability to update your cluster settings, which requires a SQL user either the [admin role]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#admin-role) or the `MODIFYCLUSTERSETTING` role option.

Reviewer 2: I believe there is also a MODIFYCLUSTERSETTING system level privilege not just a role grant (https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/stable/set-cluster-setting).

| `server.oidc_authentication.client_secret` | Your auth client's secret
| `server.oidc_authentication.redirect_url` | specifies the callback URL that redirects the user to CockroachDB after a successful authentication. This can be the address of a node in the cluster or the address of a load balancer that routes traffic to the nodes. The path must be appended with `/oidc/v1/callback`. E.g., `https://{ your cluster's domain } :8080/oidc/v1/callback`.
| `server.oidc_authentication.provider_url` | Specifies the OAuth issuer identifier. Ensure that the URL does not have a terminating `/`. For more information, see the [OIDC specification](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html#ProviderConfig). Note that CockroachDB appends the required `/.well-known/openid-configuration` by default. You do not need to include it. E.g., `https://accounts.google.com`
| `server.oidc_authentication.scopes` | A space-delimited list of the [OAuth scopes](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#ScopeClaims) being requested for an Access Token. The `openid` and `email` scopes must be included. E.g., `openid profile email`.

> | `server.oidc_authentication.claim_json_key` | The field/key used to identify the user from the external identity provider's [ID Token](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#IDToken). Must be set to `email`.

Reviewer 2: It is incorrect that this must be set to email. Any field can be used that is present in the token.

key: sso.html
---

CockroachDB clusters allow users to authenticate with Single Sign-on (SSO), both to the [DB Console]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/ui-overview.md %}), and for SQL client access.

Cluster Single Sign-On (SSO) enables users to access the SQL interface of a CockroachDB cluster (whether provisioned on CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} or self-hosted) with the full security of Single Sign-On (SSO), and the convenience of being able to choose from a variety of cloud-based or customer-managed identity providers (IdPs).

Single sign-on (SSO) for DB Console allows a CockroachDB user to access the [DB Console]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/ui-overview.md %}) in a secure cluster via an OpenID Connect (OIDC) client and an external identity provider. When SSO is configured and enabled, the [DB Console login page]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/ui-overview.md %}#db-console-access) will display an OAuth login button in addition to the password access option.

> This page describes:

Reviewer: Also, maybe not "steps", maybe "includes the following guidance"?

- The login flow for users, once a cluster is SSO-enabled.
- Configuring a CockroachDB Cluster for OIDC SSO authentication to the DB Console.
- Provioning an OIDC client for CockroachDB Cluster SSO authentication, using GCP.

> Additional configuration is needed to enable SSO authentication for SQL clients, which is described here: [Cluster Single Sign-on (SSO) using a JSON web token (JWT)]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/sso-sql.md %}) 

Reviewer: This is really a nit, un-passive-fying the sentence, but totally up to you!

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
SSO for DB Console is available to CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} customers.

On CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.core }} clusters, SSO for DB Console requires an [Enterprise license]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/enterprise-licensing.md %}).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

This SSO implementation uses the [authorization code grant type](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749#section-4.1) to authenticate a user.

**Prerequisites**:

> - **IdP:** You must have access to an OAuth 2.0 identity provider and client. The process of provisioning one with Google Cloud Platform is described here: [Provisioning an OAuth client using Google Cloud Platform (GCP)](#provision-an-oauth-client-using-google-cloud-platform-gcp)

Reviewer: Small adjustment just so users are aware it's on this page. (Nit)

- **CockroachDB Cluster**: you must have access to one of the following:

> 	1. A {{ site.data.products.core }} cluster enabled with a valid [CockroachDB Enterprise license]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/enterprise-licensing.md %}).

Reviewer: I'd unorder the two cluster options with just a bullet instead of a number since it's either or

	1. A [CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}cluster](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/create-your-cluster).

## Log in to a cluster's DB Console with SSO

From the user's perspective, once the cluster is properly configured to an identity provider, the sign-in flow is as follows:

> 1. A user opens the cluster's DB Console, and clicks on the OAuth login button which renders.

Reviewer: Does the button for the OAuth login always have the same text? Perhaps you could replace "which renders" with that text in bold.

1. The user is redirected to an external identity provider.
1. The user successfully authenticates with the provider, completing the OAuth flow.

> 1. The user is redirected to the CockroachDB cluster.

Reviewer: Here, not sure what the "registered SQL user" fragment is meant to be/where it should go?

registered SQL user.
1. CockroachDB creates a web session for the SQL user in a new browser tab.
1. In the original browser tab, the user is redirected to the [DB Console Cluster Overview]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/ui-cluster-overview-page.md %}).

## Provision an OAuth client using Google Cloud Platform (GCP)

These steps demonstrate how to create an OIDC auth client to use for SSO authentication to the DB Console, using Google Cloud Platform.

1. Open the [Credentials page](https://console.developers.google.com/apis/credentials) for your account at Google APIs.

1. Click **+ CREATE CREDENTIALS** and select **OAuth client ID**. Specify a **web application** from the pulldown menu.

> 1. Note the *client ID* and *client secret* of the OAuth 2.0 client, as you will need these values to configure you cluster to use them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Note the *client ID* and *client secret* of the OAuth 2.0 client — you will need these values to configure you cluster to use them.
```
Complete preference nit, feel free to ignore.

> 1. Add your cluster's callback URL to the list of **Authorized redirect URIs**. On a local cluster, this will be `https://localhost:8080/oidc/v1/callback`. For a {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster, replace 'localhost' with your cluster's domain. This can be found by opening the DB Console from the will be the URL of the You will later set `server.oidc_authentication.redirect_url` to the same value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add your cluster's callback URL to the list of **Authorized redirect URIs**. On a local cluster, this will be `https://localhost:8080/oidc/v1/callback`. For a {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster, replace `localhost` with your cluster's domain. This can be found by opening the DB Console from the will be the URL of the You will later set `server.oidc_authentication.redirect_url` to the same value.
```

## Configure your cluster to use an OIDC client and provider

**Prerequisites**:

> You must have the ability to update your cluster settings, which can be achieved in several ways. Refer to [`SET CLUSTER SETTING`: Required permissions](set-cluster-setting.html#required-privileges)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must have the ability to update your cluster settings, which you can achieve in several ways. Refer to the Required Privileges section on the [`SET CLUSTER SETTING`](set-cluster-setting.html#required-privileges) page.
```

### Cluster Settings

The following [cluster settings]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cluster-settings.md %}) must be configured to enable SSO authentication to the DB Console.

> Use the [Set Cluster Setting Statement]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/set-cluster-setting.md %}) to configure your cluster settings.

Reviewer: On my point below, I actually would update this sentence to refer to the section on your page.
```suggestion
Use the [Update your cluster settings](#update-your-cluster-settings) section to configure your cluster settings.
```

> | Cluster Setting | Description 

Reviewer: Note, I ran through the page in a linear way (of course there might be reasons why users may do this differently from me!).

|-----------------|------

> | `server.oidc_authentication.enabled` | A Boolean that enables or disables SSO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `server.oidc_authentication.enabled` | A Boolean that enables or disables SSO.
```

> | `server.oidc_authentication.client_id` | Your auth client's ID, e.g., `32789079457-g3hdfw8cbw85obi5cb525hsceaqf69unn.apps.googleusercontent.com`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `server.oidc_authentication.client_id` | Your auth client's ID, e.g., `32789079457-g3hdfw8cbw85obi5cb525hsceaqf69unn.apps.googleusercontent.com`.
```

> | `server.oidc_authentication.client_secret` | Your auth client's secret

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `server.oidc_authentication.client_secret` | Your auth client's secret.
```

| `server.oidc_authentication.scopes` | A space-delimited list of the [OAuth scopes](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#ScopeClaims) being requested for an Access Token. The `openid` and `email` scopes must be included. E.g., `openid profile email`.
| `server.oidc_authentication.claim_json_key` | The field/key used to identify the user from the external identity provider's [ID Token](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#IDToken).
| `server.oidc_authentication.principal_regex` | Regex used to map the external identity key to a SQL user. For example: `^([^@]+)@[^@]+$` matches any email address (defined as a string containing one `@` sign) and extracts a username from the string to the left of `@`, whereas `^(.+)$` maps the claim directly to a principal.
| `server.oidc_authentication.autologin` | Must be set to `true`.

### Update your cluster settings

> 1. Open a SQL shell to your cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open a SQL shell to your cluster:
```

	SET CLUSTER SETTING server.oidc_authentication.enabled = true;
	~~~

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
You can optionally enable the [`server.oidc_authentication.autologin` cluster setting]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cluster-settings.md %}) to automatically log in an authenticated user who visits the DB Console.

> {{site.data.alerts.end}}

Author: Nope, I think all were included when relevant.
